We engineered Shakti Seva Studio to answer a narrow civic technology question.
Can a community advocate use local AI to explain public housing repair records without losing the evidence?
A polished answer was not enough.
We wanted a person to run one case on a laptop and inspect every step.
The current prototype starts with a New York City building address.
It keeps complaints and violations separate.
It removes apartment information before a building search.
It shows where each fact came from and which action the code selected.
This talk explains the application layer, the AI layer, the proof, and what remains unknown.
The application is a local Python service with three interfaces.
A command line tool, a browser, and the Hermes terminal interface all use the same case record.
FastAPI serves the browser on the loopback address.
A same-origin WebSocket carries typed progress, case, trace, and error messages.
The case service…